## Hints
---

You may need the following refreshers to finish some problems:
- Finding the factors of a polynomial with a cube as the largest term (e.g., $x^3$)
	- Strategy:
		- Find $ax+b$ as a factor
			- Find all factors of $a$
			- Find all factors of $b$
		- Find a factor $\dfrac{b}{a}$ such that $f\bigg(\dfrac{b}{a}\bigg)=0$
		- Perform long division with the factor $ax+b$


## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. Given $\lim\limits_{x\to4}f(x)=-7, \lim\limits_{x\to4}g(x)=7$, evaluate:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to4}(-2f(x)+3g(x))=$
2. Given $\lim\limits_{x\to9}f(x)=3, \lim\limits_{x\to9}g(x)=-5$, evaluate:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to9}(2f(x)+8g(x))=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to9}(2+8f(x))=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to9}\bigg(\dfrac{2f(x)+8g(x)}{2+8f(x)}\bigg)=$
	4. $\lim\limits_{x\to9}((2f(x)+8g(x))(2+8f(x)))=$
3. Which of the following are true statements? Mark all that are true.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$ and $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$ and $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$ and $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$
	4. $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$
	5. $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$
	6. $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$
	7. $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$
	8. $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^+}f(x)=-1$
	9. $\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=-1$ implies that $\lim\limits_{x\to a^-}f(x)=-1$
4. Consider the following limit: $\lim\limits_{x\to8}(4+\sqrt[3]{x})(6-6x^2+x^3)$
	1. Evaluate the limit:
	2. Justify the limit by showing each step of the evaluation and indicating the appropriate Limit Laws. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.
5. Compute each of the following limits. enter the exact values of the answers.
	1. $\lim\limits_{y\to 9^-}\dfrac{10-\sqrt{91+y}}{y-9}=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{y\to 9+}\dfrac{10-\sqrt{91+y}}{y-9}=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{y\to 9}\dfrac{10-\sqrt{91+y}}{y-9}=$
6. Compute the given limit. Enter exact values
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to7}\dfrac{x^2+2x-63}{-x+7}=$
7. Find the following limit:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to7}\dfrac{x^3-9x^2+19x-35}{x-7}=$
8. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{s\to4}\dfrac{4-s}{2-\sqrt{s}}=$
9. Evaluate:
	1. $\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{\dfrac{1}{2(x+h)^2}-\dfrac{1}{2x^2}}{h}=$
10. Evaluate the limit:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to7}\dfrac{x^2+9x+14}{x+7}=$
11. Evaluate the limit:
	1. $\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{(-5+h)^2-25}{h}=$
12. Evaluate the limit, if it exists. If it does not exist, enter DNE.
	1. $\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{(8+h)^{-1}-8^{-1}}{h}=$
13. Evaluate the limit below given that $f(x)=5x^2$
	1. $\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}=$
14. Let $f(x)=\dfrac{3}{x-1}-\dfrac{6}{x^2-1}$
	1. Evaluate the limit: $\lim\limits_{x\to1}f(x)=$
15. Suppose the function $g$ satisfies $4x-2x^2<g(x)<x^2-2x+3$. We want to use the Squeeze Theorem to evaluate $\lim\limits_{x\to1}g(x)$
	1. First evaluate: $\lim\limits_{x\to1}4x-2x^2$
	2. Next evalaute: $\lim\limits_{x\to1}x^2-2x+3$
	3. Therefore, by Squeeze Theorem, $\lim\limits_{x\to1}g(x)=$
16. Prove, using methods taught in this course, the following limit is a true statement. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to0}x^2\sin\bigg(\dfrac{5}{x}\bigg)=0$
17. Evaluate:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to0}\dfrac{\sin(11x)}{x}=$
18. Find the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to\frac{4\pi}{3}}\dfrac{\sin(x-\frac{4\pi}{3})}{x-\frac{4\pi}{3}}=$
19. Evaluate:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to0}\dfrac{6\sin(5x)}{\sin(3x)}=$
20. Evaluate
	1. $\lim\limits_{t\to0}\dfrac{\sin^2(t)}{7t}$
21. Find the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to0}\dfrac{\csc x- \cos x \cot x}{7x}=$
22. Compute each of the following limits. Use exact values
	1. $\lim\limits_{a\to1^-}\dfrac{|4a-4|}{1-a}=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{a\to1^+}\dfrac{|4a-4|}{1-a}=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to1}\dfrac{|4a-4|}{1-a}=$
23. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to4^+}\dfrac{(x^2-3)(-4-x)}{|-4-x|}=$
24. Find the value of each limit, if it exists. If it does not exist, enter DNE.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to0^-}\bigg(\dfrac{16}{x}-\dfrac{16}{|x|}\bigg)=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to0^+}\bigg(\dfrac{16}{x}-\dfrac{16}{|x|}\bigg)=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to0}\bigg(\dfrac{16}{x}-\dfrac{16}{|x|}\bigg)=$
25. Let $$\begin{equation}
f(x)=\left\{ \begin{array}{cl}
\sqrt{-5-x}+4 & \textrm{if }x<-6\\
4 & \textrm{if }x=-6\\
2x+17 & \textrm{if } x>-6\\
\end{array}\right.
\end{equation}$$ Calculate the following limits. Enter DNE if the limit does not exist
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to -6^-}f(x)=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to 6^+}f(x)=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to 6}f(x)=$
26.  Find numbers $a, b$ such that $\lim\limits_{x\to 0}\dfrac{\sqrt{ax+b}-4}{x}=1$. Hint: Start by just trying to evaluate the limit algebraically. as you try to simplify, ask yourself what value for $b$ will allow you to "factor and cancel"
	1. $a =$
	2. $b=$
27. If $$\begin{equation}
f(x)=\left\{ \begin{array}{cl}
7x^4 & \textrm{if }x \textrm{ is rational}\\
0 & \textrm{if }x \textrm{ is irrational}\\
\end{array}\right.
\end{equation}$$
Give a detailed proof, using methods taught in this course, that $\lim\limits_{x\to0}f(x)=0$. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.