>[!Info] Learning Objectives
>
>- Calculate the limit of a function as $x$ increases or decreases without bound
>- Define a horizontal asymptote in terms of a finite limit at infinity
>- Evaluate a finite limit at infinity by initially performing algebraic manipulations
>- Conceptually investigate an infinite limit at infinity
>- Describe when the Limit Laws cannot be applied

This section covers limits as $x$ tends to $\pm\infty$. These are known collectively as limits at infinity.

## Finite Limits at Infinity and Horizontal Asymptotes
---

$\lim\limits_{x\to a}f(x)=L$ means $f(x)$ becomes arbitrarily close to $L$ as long as $x$ is sufficiently close to $a$. In other words - the **_outputs_** of $f(x)$ get closer to $L$ as $x$ gets closer to $a$ ($f(x\to a)=K \to L$, and $f(a)=L$) We can extend this idea to limits at infinity.

Take the function $f(x)=2+\dfrac{1}{x}$. As the values of $x$ get larger, the values of $f(x)$ approach 2. We say the limit as $x\to\infty$ of $f(x)$ is 2 and write $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=2$.
For $x<0$, as the values of $|x|$ get larger, the values of $f(x)$ approach 2. We say that the limit as $x\to -\infty$ of $f(x)$ is 2 and write $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=2$.

In general terms, for any function $f$, we say the limit as $x\to\infty$ of $f(x)$ is $L$ if $f(x)$ becomes arbitrarily close to $L$ as long as $x$ is sufficiently large. In other words, the limit of a function gets closer and closer to a specific number as the inputs of the function move towards infinity. In that case, we write $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=L$. The same is true in the opposite case (where $x<0$), in that case, we write $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=L$.

>[!Note] Definition: Finite Limit at Infinity (Informal)
>
>If the values of $f(x)$ become arbitrarily close to the finite value $L$ as $x$ becomes sufficiently large, we say the function $f$ has a **finite limit at infinity** and write: $$\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)=L$$
>
>If the values of $f(x)$ become arbitrarily close to the finite value $L$ for $x<0$ as $|x|$ becomes sufficiently large, we say that the function $f$ has a finite limit at negative infinity and write: $$\lim_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=L$$
>
>If the values of $f(x)$ are getting arbitrarily close to some finite value $L$ as $x\to\infty$ or $x\to -\infty$, the graph of $f$ approaches the line $y=L$. In that case, the line $y=L$ is a horizontal asymptote of $f$. For example, for the function $f(x)=\dfrac{1}{x}$, since $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=0$, the line $y=0$ is a horizontal asymptote of $f(x)=\dfrac{1}{x}$.

And...

>[!Note] Definition: Horizontal Asymptote
>
>If $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=L$ or $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=L$, we say the line $y=L$ is a **horizontal asymptote** of $f$.

Keep in mind that a function **cannot** cross a **_vertical asymptote_** but it **can** cross a **_horizontal asymptote_** an unlimited number of times. $f(x)=\dfrac{\cos x}{x}+1$ is a good example.

## Revisiting the Limit Laws
---

Before we evaluate finite limits at infinity without using tables of values, let's revisit the Limit Laws:

>[!Example]- Theorem: Limit Laws for Limits at Infinity
>
>Let $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ be defined for all $x>a$, where $a$ is a real number. Assume that $L$ and $M$ are real numbers such that $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=L$ and $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}g(x)=M$. Let $c$ be a constant.
>
>**Sum and Difference Laws for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}(f(x)\pm g(x))=\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)\pm \lim_{x\to\infty}g(x)=L\pm M$$
>**Constant Multiple Law for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}cf(x)= c\cdot\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)= cL$$
>**Product Law for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}(f(x)\cdot g(x))= \lim_{x\to\infty}f(x) \cdot \lim_{x\to\infty}g(x) = L \cdot M$$
>**Quotient Law for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)} = \dfrac{\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)}{\lim_{x\to\infty}g(x)}= \dfrac{L}{M}$$ for $M\not=0$
>**Power Law for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}(f(x))^n=(\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x))^n=L^n$$ for every positive integer $n$
>**Root Law for Limits:** $$\lim_{x\to\infty}\sqrt[n]{f(x)}= \sqrt[n]{\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)} = \sqrt[n]{L}$$ for all $L$ if $n$ is odd and for $L\ge 0$ if $n$ is even.
>
>Each of these Limit Laws can be adjusted for $x\to -\infty$ as long as $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ are defined for all $x<a$, where $a$ is a real number.

Now we add a "lemma"

>[!Example] Lemma
>
>$$\lim_{x\to\infty}x=\infty$$
>$$\lim_{x\to -\infty}x=-\infty$$
>$$\lim_{x\to \pm\infty}\dfrac{1}{x}=0$$

The lemma above allows us to prove the following theorem.

>[!Example] Theorem: Limits of Rational Numbers to a Power
>
>If $p>0$ is a rational number, then: $$\lim_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{1}{x^p}=0$$
>If $p>0$ is a rational number such that $x^p$ is defined for all $x$, then: $$\lim_{x\to -\infty} \dfrac{1}{x^p}=0$$
>
>**Proof:**
>Let $p$ be a rational number. The only constraint on using the Limit Laws is that the values of the limits must be finite. Therefore, $a$ is allowed to be $\pm\infty$. Thus: $$\lim_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{1}{x^p} = \lim_{x\to\infty} \bigg(\dfrac{1}{x}\bigg)^p$$
>$$=\bigg(\lim_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{1}{x}\bigg)^p \textrm{ a mixture of the Power Law and Root Law for Limits}$$ 
>$$=0^p \textrm{ by Lemma}$$
>$$=0$$
>
>If we allow $x\to -\infty$, then additional restrictions on $p$ must be made. Specifically, since $p$ is a rational number, it cannot be equivalent to a simplified fraction with an even denominator. Otherwise, the even denominator would imply an even-indexed root of $x$, and this would result in imaginary numbers. Hence, as long as $x^p$ is defined, $$\lim_{x\to -\infty}\dfrac{1}{x^p}=0$$ by a similar derivation.

## Evaluating Finite Limits at Infinity
---

Finite limits at infinity are often disguised as indeterminate forms (e.g., where the limit approaches $\frac{\infty}{\infty}$ or $\infty - \infty$). It is for these cases that we should keep in mind the mathematical mantra when evaluating finite limits at infinity.

A shorthand way of solving the following problems is to put every term in the form of the lemma above $\dfrac{1}{x}$. This allows us to have that number go to 0 (per the lemma) and only deal with the largest terms. 

>[!Abstract] Example: Evaluating Finite Limits at Infinity Having Indeterminate Forms
>
>Evaluate the following limits:
>- $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\pi x^5+x^3-1}{3x^5+x+2}$
>	- The limit is an indeterminate form of $\infty / \infty$ Our strategy to resolve the situation in this case? Divide both the numerator and denominator by $x^p$, where $p$ is the largest existing power within the function. Using this strategy and the lemma, we get:
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\pi+\dfrac{1}{x^2}-\dfrac{1}{x^5}}{3+\dfrac{1}{x^4}+\dfrac{2}{x^5}}$
>	- $=\dfrac{\pi+0-0}{3+0+0}$
>	- $=\dfrac{\pi}{3}$
>- $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{1-x+x^2}}{3-x}$
>	- Multiple terms of $\infty$ used here, same strategy as before, only slightly different, now we're factoring out the largest term from the numerator (from inside the square root).
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{x^2(\frac{1}{x^2}-\frac{1}{x}+1)}}{3-x}$
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{x^2}\sqrt{\frac{1}{x^2}-\frac{1}{x}+1}}{3-x}$
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{|x|\sqrt{\frac{1}{x^2}-{1}{x}+1}}{3-x}$
>		- We're doing the absolute value since we don't know what x is. We'll have to use the definition of an absolute value function to get the right sign associated with $x$ (positive or negative). $\sqrt[n]{x}=x$ if $n$ is odd $|x|$ if $n$ is even.
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{x\sqrt{\frac{1}{x^2}-\frac{1}{x}+1}}{3-x}$
>	- $=\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\dfrac{\not x\sqrt{\frac{1}{x^2}-\frac{1}{x}+1}}{\frac{3}{x}-1}$
>		- Divide the entire fraction by $x$
>	- $=\dfrac{\sqrt{0-0+1}}{0-1}$
>	- $=-1$

Now a trig limit theorem involving $\tan$.

>[!Abstract] Example: Evaluating Finite Limits at Infinity Conceptually
>
>Evaluate $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)$ and $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)$
>
>First consider the graph of $y=\tan(x)$ over the interval $(-\frac{\pi}{2}, \frac{\pi}{2})$
>Since $$\lim_{x\to \frac{\pi}{2}^-}\tan x = \infty$$ it follows that
>$$\lim_{x\to\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)=\dfrac{\pi}{2}$$
>Similarly, since $$\lim_{x\to \frac{\pi}{2}^+}\tan x = -\infty$$
>it follows that $$\lim_{x\to\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)=-\dfrac{\pi}{2}$$
>
>As a result, $y=\frac{\pi}{2}$ and $y=-\frac{\pi}{2}$ are horizontal asymptotes of $f(x)=\tan^{-1}(x)$

Time to formalize the information above.

>[!Example] Theorem: Limits of $\tan$ and $\tanh$
>
>$$\lim_{x\to\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)=\dfrac{\pi}{2}$$
>$$\lim_{x\to -\infty}\tan^{-1}(x)=-\dfrac{\pi}{2}$$
>$$\lim_{x\to\infty}\tanh(x)=1$$
>$$\lim_{x\to -\infty}\tanh(x)=-1$$
>$$\lim_{x\to\infty}b^{-x}=0 \textrm{ where }b>1$$

## Revisiting the Squeeze Theorem
---

>[!Example] Theorem: The Squeeze Theorem for Limits at Infinity
>
>Let $f(x), g(x), h(x)$ be defined for all $x>a$, where $a$ is a real number. If $$f(x)\le g(x)\le h(x)$$
>for all $x>a$ and $$\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)=L=\lim_{x\to\infty}h(x)$$
>where $L$ is a real number, then $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}g(x)=L$
>
>Let $f(x), g(x), h(x)$ be defined for all $x<a$, where $a$ is a real number. If $$f(x)\le g(x)\le h(x)$$
>for all $x<a$ and $$\lim_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=L=\lim_{x\to -\infty}h(x)$$
>where $L$ is a real number, then $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}g(x)=L$

## Infinite Limits at Infinity
---

Sometimes the values of a function $f$ become large as $x\to\infty$ or $x\to -\infty$. In this case, we write $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=\infty$ or $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=-\infty$. On the other hand, if the values of $f$ are negative but become large in magnitude as $x\to\infty$, we write $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}f(x)=-\infty$ or $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=\infty$.

>[!Note] Definition: Infinite Limit at Infinity (Informal)
>
>We say a function $f$ has an infinite limit at infinity and write $$\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)=\infty$$
>if $f(x)$ becomes arbitrarily large for $x$ sufficiently large. We say a function has a negative infinite limit at infinity and write $$\lim_{x\to\infty}f(x)=-\infty$$ if $f(x)$ and $|f(x)|$ becomes arbitrarily large for $x$ sufficiently large. Similarly, we can define infinite limits as $x\to -\infty$

In general, infinite limits at infinity require fewer prerequisite manipulations to evaluate than other types of limits, and require more conceptual investigation. The theorem below contains some common infinite limits at infinity.

>[!Example] Theorem: Infinite Limits at Infinity
>
>- $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}x=\infty$
>- $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}x=-\infty$
>- If $p>0, \lim\limits_{x\to\infty}x^p=\infty$
>- If $b>1, \lim\limits_{x\to\infty}b^x=\infty$



