## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. For the function $g$ whose graph is given, state the following.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to\infty}g(x)=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}g(x)=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to -2^-}g(x)=$
	4. $\lim\limits_{x\to -2^+}g(x)=$
	5. $\lim\limits_{x\to -2}g(x)=$
	6. $\lim\limits_{x\to 3^-}g(x)=$
	7. $\lim\limits_{x\to 3^+}g(x)=$
	8. $\lim\limits_{x\to 3}g(x)=$
2. Which of the followig graphs exhibit ALL of the listed properties:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}f(x)=2$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -2}f(x)$ does not exist
	3. $f(-2)$ is undefined
3. Evaluate
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{2x^3-6x^2-2x-5}{-3x^2+x-4}=$
4. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{(10-x)(10+6x)}{(3-11x)(4+8x)}$
5. Find the value of the limit. If the limit does not exist, enter DNE. Answers should be in exact form.
	1. $\lim\limits_{t\to \infty}\dfrac{t-t\sqrt{t}}{10t^{3/2}+6t-6}$
6. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{4+10x^2}}{(3+8x)}$
7. Evaluate the following limits.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{8+7x^2}}{9+3x}$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}\dfrac{\sqrt{8+7x^2}}{9+3x}$
8. The horizontal asymptotes of the curve $y=\dfrac{4x}{(x^4+1)^{1/4}}$ are given by:
	1. $y_1=$
	2. $y_2=$
9. Evaluate the limit, answers should be in exact form:
	1. $\lim\limits_{t\to -\infty}\dfrac{-5t-9}{\sqrt{t^2+6t+5}}$
10. Evaluate the following limits.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}(\sqrt{x^2-10x+1}-x)$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}(\sqrt{x^2-10x+1}-x)$
11. Evaluate the following limits
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}(-10x^2+24x^3)$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}(-10x^2+24x^3)$
12. Determine the following limit or state that the limit does not exist
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\bigg(\dfrac{2}{3}\bigg)^x$
13. Evaluate
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{3e^{8x}+9e^{-9x}}{6e^{9x}+10e^{-7x}}$
14. Find the value of the limit or show it does not exist:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{\cos^2(x)}{x^7+1}$
15. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\dfrac{\sin(x)}{9x^2+6x+1}$
16. For $f(x)=\dfrac{17}{x}-\dfrac{2}{\ln(x)}$ evaluate the following:
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}f(x)=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to 0^+}f(x)=$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to 1^-}f(x)=$
	4. $\lim\limits_{x\to 1^+}f(x)=$
17. Show that each of the following functions has a horizontal asymptote by calculating the given limit. Answers should be in exact form.
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}\bigg(9+\dfrac{4x}{x^2-4x+4}\bigg)=$
	2. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}\bigg(\dfrac{8-4x}{8+x}+\dfrac{5x^2+6}{(2x-8)^2}\bigg)$
	3. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}\bigg(\dfrac{2x+4}{x-2}\cdot\dfrac{9x-9}{-x-4}\bigg)$
	4. $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}(\sqrt{x^2+8x-6}-x)$
	5. $\lim\limits_{x\to -\infty}(\sqrt{x^2+8x-6}+x)$
18. Make a claim about the value of $\lim\limits_{x\to \infty}f(x)$ and then show that your claim is true given that the following inequality holds for $x>8$. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.
	1. $\dfrac{9e^x-84}{3e^x}<f(x)<\dfrac{3\sqrt{x}}{\sqrt{x-8}}$
19. A large company determines that in $t$ months, the number of units (in the thousands) that they will have produced is given by $p(t)=\dfrac{(12t+3)^4}{t^4+4}$. What will happen to the production in the long run?


