## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. The graph below shows a function $y=f(x)$, together with a tangent line to the curve at the point (0, 2). We don't know the formula for the function $f$, but we do know its derivative. $f'(x)=\dfrac{-6\cos(-3x)}{x^2+1}-\dfrac{4x\sin(-3x)}{(x^2+1)^2}-2\sin(x)$ What is the equation of the tangent line?
2. Suppose that $f$ is a function given as $f(x)=\dfrac{1}{-4x+1}$.
	1. Simplify the expression $f(x+h)$
	2. Simplify the difference quotient $\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}$
	3. The derivative of the function at $x$ is the limit of the difference quotient as $h$ approaches zero: $f'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to 0}\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}$: 
3. Let $f(x)=4x^2-5x-8$. According to the definition:
	1. $f'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to 0}$:
4. Suppose that $L$ is a location function of an object, given as $L(t)=\dfrac{1}{-4t+1}$. We will compute th instantaneous velocity of the object at $t$ as follows. Use exact values
	1. First we compute and simplify $L(t+h)$:
	2. Then we compute and simplify the average velocity between $t$ and $t+h$: $\dfrac{L(t+h)-L(t)}{h}$
	3. The instantaneous velocity $v(t)$ of the object at $t$ is the limit of the average velocity as $h$ approaches zero. $v(t)=\lim\limits_{h\to 0}\dfrac{L(t+h)-L(t)}{h}$
5. Given $f(x)=9x^2-12x+11$, find $f'(x)$ using the limit definition of the derivative.
	1. $f'(x)=$
6. Use the limit definition of the derivative to find $f'(x)$ for the following function. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.
	1. $f(x)=\dfrac{8-3x}{4+x}$
7. Let $f(x)=-3x^3-9x+2$
	1. Use the limit definition of the derivative to calculate the derivative of $f$. $f'(x)$=
	2. Use the same formula from above to calculate the derivative of this new function (i.e. the second derivative of $f$). $f''(x)=$
8. If $f(x)=-4x^2+4x+3$, find the instantaneous rate of change of $f(x)$ at $x=5$
9. If $f(x)=6$, what are $f'(x)$ and $f'(-9)$?
	1. $f'(x)$=
	2. $f'(-9)$=
10. The graph of $y=f(x)$ is shown. Determine the sign of the following limits, if they exist.
	1. $\lim\limits_{h\to 0^+}\dfrac{f(2+h)-f(2)}{h}$
		1. Positive, negative, zero, undefined
	2. $\lim\limits_{h\to 0^-}\dfrac{f(2+h)-f(2)}{h}$
		1. Positive, negative, zero, undefined
	3. $\lim\limits_{h\to 0}\dfrac{f(2+h)-f(2)}{h}$
		1. Positive, negative, zero, undefined
11. List all the numbers x at which the function graphed above is not differentiable. Separate answers using commas.
12. Use the graph of $f(x)$ above to estimate the value of $f'(2)$ to one decimal place
	1. $f'(2)$=
13. Below is the plot of a function $f(x)$. Which is the most accurate table for the derivative function $f'(x)$?
14. The graph of a function follows. Choose the graph of its derivative from among the following functions.
15. A student drew the graph of $y=f(x), y=f'(x), y=g(x),$ and $y=h(x)$. Unfortunately they forgot to label which graph was which and the graphs got mixed up. The graphs are shown below.
	1. Which is the graph of $y=f(x)$?
	2. Which is the graph of $y=f'(x)$?
16. The graph of function f and its derivative $f'$ are shown below. Select the correct graph for each function.
17. The graph of $f(x)$ is given on the grid. Graph $f'(x)$, its derivative
18. The graph of $f(x)$ is given on the grid. Graph $f'(x)$, its derivative
19. The graph below shows the function $y=g(x)$, which has a cusp at $x=4$. Sketch the graph of $g'(x)$. Credit for graphing is based on correctness and cleanliness
20. Let $P$ represent the percentage of a state's electrical power that is produced by solar panels $t$ years after January 1, 2000.
	1. What does $dP/dt$ represent in this context?
	2. Interpret the statement $\dfrac{dP}{dt}\bigg|_{t=19}=2.7$
21. Match each function with its graph
22. The graphs of a function $f$ and its derivative $f'$ are shown (you have to determine which curve represents $f$ and which curve represents $f'$). Which is bigger, $f(0)$ or $f'(0)$?
23. For what values of $A$ and $B$ is the given function $f(x)$ differentiable at $x=-3$? $f(x)=\begin{cases} Ax+B & \text{if } x<-3 \\ x^2+x & \text{if } x\ge -3 \end{cases}$
	1. A =
	2. B =
24. Let $f(x) = |x-9|$
	1. Give a detailed proof that $f$ is not differentiable at $x=9$.
	2. Find a formula for $f'$. Since there are several creative representations for this function, you will submit your formula with your work below
	3. Sketch the graph of $f'(x)$
25. Let $g(x) = x+|x|$
	1. Sketch the graph of $g(x)$
	2. For what value of $x$ is $g$ not differentiable?
	3. Let $a$ be the value where $g$ is not differentiable. Write a formula for $g'$
26. Give a detailed proof that the derivative of an odd function is an even function. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.