>[!Info] Learning Objectives
>
>- State the constant, constant multiple, and Power Rules
>- Apply the Sum and Difference Rules to combine derivatives
>- Extend the Power Rule to functions with negative and rational exponents
>- Combine the differentiation rules to find the derivative of a polynomial or rational function
>- Use derivatives of polynomials for applications in the sciences, engineering, and business
>- Combine previous knowledge of tangent lines with derivatives of polynomials

In this section, we develop rules for finding derivatives that allow us to bypass this process. Beginning with the basics.

## The Basic Rules
---

The functions $f(x)=c$ and $g(x)=x^n$ where $n$ is a positive integer are the building blocks from which all polynomials and rational functions are constructed. To find derivatives of polynomials and rational functions efficiently without resorting to the limit definition of the derivative, we must first develop formulas for differentiating these basic functions.

### The Constant Rule
---

Applying the limit definition to find the derivative of the constant function $f(x)=c$. For this function, both $f(x)=c$ and $f(x+h)=c$, so we get the following:
- $f'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}$
- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{c-c}{h}$
- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{0}{c}$
- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}0$
- $=0$

The rule for differentiating constant functions is called the **Constant Rule**. It states that the derivative of a constant function is zero; since a constant function is a **horizontal line**, the slope (rate of change, $\frac{\Delta y}{\Delta x}$) of a constant function is 0. Restating in the following theorem.

>[!Example] Theorem: The Constant Rule
>
>Let $c$ be a constant. If $f(x)=c$, then $f'(x)=0$
>Alternatively, we may express this rule as $$\dfrac{d}{dx}(c)=0$$

Example time!

>[!Success] Example: Applying the Constant Rule
>
>Find the derivative of $f(x)=8$
>
>**Solution**
>This is just a one-step application of the rule: $f'(8)=0$
>
>>[!Note] Heads Up!
>>In the above example, the derivative $f'$ used an example of $f'(8)$. This is easy to confuse with what the rule is actually stating. The rule states that the **slope of the tangent line to a function that is constant is always zero**. This example just **_happened_** to use $f'(8)$ as the number that we plugged into the derivative. It could be $f'(1), f'(548), or f'(\infty)$, all of these individual points would return as **slope** of 0 because the function $f(x)=8$ is a constant function.

### The Power Rule
---

During our exploration of the limit definition of the derivative, we showed that $$\dfrac{d}{dx}(x^2)=2x \text{ and } \dfrac{d}{dx}(x^{1/2})=\dfrac{1}{2}x^{-1/2}$$
We continue our examination of derivative formulas by differentiating power functions of the form $f(x)=x^n$ where $n$ is a positive integer. Let's take a look at a specific case $\frac{d}{dx}(x^3)$ since the technique used in this case is essentially the same as the technique used to prove the general case.

>[!Success] Example: Differentiating
>
>Find $\frac{d}{dx}(x^3)$
>
>**Solution**
>- $\dfrac{d}{dx}(x^3)=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{(x+h)^3-x^3}{h}$
>- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{x^3+3x^2h+3xh^2+h^3-x^3}{h}$
>- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{3x^2h+3xh^2+h^3}{h}$
>- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{h(3x^2+3xh+h^2)}{h}$
>- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{\cancel{h}(3x^2+3xh+h^2)}{\cancel{h}}$
>- $=\lim\limits_{h\to0}(3x^2+3xh+h^2)$
>- $=3x^2$ -- via direct substitution

The procedure for finding the derivative of the general form $f(x)=x^n$ is very similar. Although it is often unwise to draw **general conclusions from specific examples**, we note that when we differentiate $f(x)=x^3$, the derivative becomes the product of the original power and $x$ to a power one less than it was before.

The following theorem states that the **Power Rule** holds for all positive integer powers of $x$

>[!Example] Theorem: The Power Rule (positive integer exponents only)
>
>Let $n$ be a positive integer. If $f(x)=x^n$, then $$f'(x)=nx^{n-1}$$
>Alternatively, we may express this rule as $$\dfrac{d}{dx}(x^n)=nx^{n-1}$$
>
>**Proof**
>For $f(x)=x^n$ where $n$ is a positive integer, we have $$f'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{(x+h)^n-x^n}{h}$$
>Since $$(x+h)^n=x^n+nx^{n-1}h + \big(_2^n\big) x^{n-2}h^2 + \big(_3^n\big) x^{n-3}h^3 +...+ nxh^{n-1} + h^n$$
>we see that $$(x+h)^n-x^n=nx^{n-1}h+\big(_2^n\big)x^{n-2}h^2 + \big(_3^n\big) x^{n-3}h^3 +...+ nxh^{n-1} + h^n$$
>Next, divide both sides by $h$: $$\dfrac{(x+h)^n-x^n}{h}=\dfrac{nx^{n-1}h + \big(_2^n\big)x^{n-2}h^2 + \big(_3^n\big)x^{n-3}h^3 +...+ nxh^{n-1}+h^n}{h}$$
>Thus $$\dfrac{(x+h)^n-x^n}{h}=nx^{n-1} + \big(_2^n\big)x^{n-2}h + \big(_3^n)x^{n-3}h^2 +...+ nxh^{n-2} + h^{n-1}$$
>Finally, $$f'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac(nx^{n-1} + \big(_2^n\big)x^{n-2}h + \big(_3^n\big)x^{n-3}h^2 +...+ nxh^{n-2} + h^{n-1}) = nx^{n-1}$$
>Q.E.D.

Example time!

>[!Success]


