## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. Answer the following True or False: $\dfrac{d}{dx}\pi^7=7\pi^6$
2. Find the derivative of $f(x)=8x^{-4}-7x^{-5}$
	1. $f'(x)=$
3. Find the derivative of $f(x)=-2\sqrt{x}$
	1. $f'(x)=$
4. Differentiate the function: $f(x)=-9\sqrt{x}+\dfrac{9}{x^3}$
	1. $f'(x)=$
5. Differentiate, fractions instead of decimals: $y= \dfrac{2}{t} - \dfrac{2}{t^8} - \dfrac{5}{\sqrt[4]{t}}$
	1. $y'=$
6. Let $f(x)=-8x^4\sqrt{x}+\dfrac{-4}{x^2\sqrt{x}}$
	1. $f'(x)=$
7. Differentiate the function: $f(x)=\dfrac{-x^6+x^7+8x^9}{x^8}$
	1. $f'(x)=$
8. If $f(x)=10x+2$, find $f'(0)$
9. If $f(x)=\dfrac{3}{x^2}$, find $f'(2)$
10. Let $f(x)=-19$
	1. Then $f'(-5)=$
	2. And after simplifying $f'(x)=$
11. Let $f(x)=4x^3-5x$. Find the values of $x$ where $f'(x)=2$. Exact answers only
	1. $x=$
12. Let $h(t)=2t^{3.2}-8t^{-3.2}$
	1. $h'(t)=$
	2. $h'(4)=$
	3. $h''(t)=$
	4. $h''(4)=$
13. If $g(t)=2t^4-3t^2+5$ find
	1. $g(0)=$
	2. $g'(0)=$
	3. $g''(0)=$
	4. $g'''(0)=$
	5. $g^{(4)}(0)=$
	6. $g^{(5)}(0)=$
14. If $f(x)=3+\dfrac{7}{x}+\dfrac{6}{x^2}$, find 
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f'(2)=$
	3. $f''(x)=$
	4. $f''(2)=$
15. Let $f(x)=x^n$
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f''(x)=$
	3. $f'''(x)=$
	4. $f^{(4)}(x)=$
	5. $f^{(n)}(x)=$
16. Find the indicated derivatives, using the following information
	1. $$f(2)=5 \quad f'(2)=3 \quad g(2)=4 \quad g'(2)=-5$$
	2. $2f(2)+3g(2)=$
	3. $\dfrac{d}{dx}(2f+3g)(2)=$
17. Let $f(x)=6x+\dfrac{12}{x^2}$. Then the equation of the tangent line to the graph of $f(x)$ at the point (2, 15) is given by $y=mx+b$ for
	1. $m=$
	2. $b=$
18. Find the values of $x$ where the tangent line to the graph of $f(x)=\dfrac{1}{x}$ is parallel to the line $y=-5x+7$.
	1. $x=$
19. Find an equation of the **normal line** to the curve $y=6\sqrt{x}$ that is parallel to the line $3x+y=2$
20. The graph of $f(x)=2x^3+6x^2-144x+5$ has two horizontal tangents
	1. What is the negative value of $x$ where a horizontal tangent occurs?
	2. What is the positive value of $x$ where a horizontal tangent occurs?
21. Find the coefficients of a cubic function $f(x)=ax^3+bx^2+cx+d$ whose graph passes through the following two points and that has horizontal tangent lines at these points: (-2,4), (2,7)
	1. $a=$
	2. $b=$
	3. $c=$
	4. $d=$
22. A particle moves along a straight line with equation of motion $s=t^5-5t^4$. Find the value of $t$ other than zero at which the acceleration is equal to zero
23. A ball is thrown upward in the air, and its height above the ground after $t$ seconds is $H(t)=86t-16t^2$ feet.
	1. Find the time $t$ when the ball will be traveling upward at 43 feet per second (3 decimal places). $t=$
24. The population of a slowly growing bacterial colony after $t$ hours is given by $p(t)=3t^2+31t+100$.
	1. What is the growth rate after 3 hours
25. Suppose a product's revenue function is given by $R(q)=-8q^2+500q$. Find an expression for the marginal revenue function, simplify it, and record your result in the box below. Be sure to use the proper variable in your answer.
	1. $M_R(q)=$
26. Suppose a product's cost function is given by $C(q)=-7q^2+600q$ where $C(q)$ is in dollars and $q$ is the number of units produced.
	1. Use the marginal cost function to find the approximate cost of producing the 29th unit
	2. Marginal cost = 
27. The R.C. Helliot Advertising Company finds that its profits on day $t$ of an advertising campaign is given by $P(t)=-2.5t^2+35t+34,000$ where $P(t)$ is profit in dollars for day $t$ of the campaign
	1. Find a simplified expression for the marginal profit function: $M_P(t)=$
	2. What is the exact rate of change of profits when 8 days have been passed in the campaign?
	3. What are their total profits on day 8 of the campaign?
28. If $f$ is the (constant) focal length of a convex lens and an object is placed at a distance $p$ from the lens, then its image will be at a distance $q$ from the lens, where $f, p, q$ are related by the lens equation: $\dfrac{1}{f}=\dfrac{1}{p}+\dfrac{1}{q}$
	1. What is the rate of change of $p$ with respect to $q$ if $q=2$ and $f=3$?
29. The equation $y''+y'-2y=2x^2-8x-3$ is called a _differential equation_ because it involves an unknown function, $y$, and its derivatives $y'$ and $y''$. Find constants A, B and C such that the function $y=Ax^2+Bx+C$ satisfies this differential equation
30. Evaluate the limit
	1. $\lim\limits_{x\to1}\dfrac{x^{996}-1}{x-1}$
31. The curves $f(x)=x^2+x+5$ and $g(x)=-4x+11$ intersect at the point (1,7).
	1. Find the acute angle of intersection, in radians on the domain $0\le t \le \dfrac{\pi}{2}$ to two decimal places