>[!Info] Learning Objectives
>
>- Use the Product Rule for finding the derivative of a product of functions
>- Use the Quotient Rule for finding the derivative of a quotient of functions
>- Combine the differentiation rules to find the derivative of a polynomial or rational function

## The Product Rule
---

After examining the basic rules, we start looking at more advanced rules.

>[!Example] Theorem: The Product Rule
>
>Let $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ be differentiable functions. Then $$\dfrac{d}{dx}(f(x)(g(x)) = \dfrac{d}{dx}(f(x))\cdot g(x)+ \dfrac{d}{dx}(g(x))\cdot f(x)$$
>
>That is $$\text{if }p(x)=f(x)g(x), \quad \text{then }p'(x)=f'(x)g(x)+g'(x)f(x)$$
>
>This means that the derivative of a product of two functions is the derivative of the first function times the second function plus the derivative of the second function times the first function.
>
>**Proof**
>We begin by assuming that $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ are differentiable functions. At a key point in this proof we need to use the fact that since $g(x)$ is differentiable, it is also continuous. In particular, we use the fact that since $g(x)$ is continuous, $\lim\limits_{h\to0} g(x+h)=g(x)$.
>
>By applying the limit definition of the derivative to $p(x)=f(x)g(x)$, we obtain $$p'(x)=\lim_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x)}{h}$$
>
>By adding and subtracting $f(x)g(x+h)$ in the numerator, we have $$p'(x)=\lim_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x+h)+f(x)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x)}{h}$$
>
>After breaking apart this quotient and applying the Sum Law for limits, the derivative becomes $$p'(x)=\lim_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x+h)}{h}+ \lim_{h\to0} \dfrac{f(x)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x+h)}{h}+ \lim_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x)g(x+h)-f(x)g(x)}{h}$$
>
>Rearranging, we obtain:
>- $p'(x)=\lim\limits_{h\to0}\bigg(\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}\cdot g(x+h)\bigg) + \lim\limits_{h\to0} \bigg(\dfrac{g(x+h)-g(x)}{h}\cdot f(x)\bigg)$
>- $=\bigg(\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}\bigg)\cdot (\lim\limits_{h\to0}g(x+h)) + \bigg(\lim\limits_{h\to0}\dfrac{g(x+h)-g(x)}{h}\bigg)\cdot f(x)$
>
>By using the continuity of $g(x)$, the definition of the derivatives of $f(x)$ and $g(x)$, and applying the Limit Laws, we arrive at the Product Rule, $$p'(x)=f'(x)g(x)+g'(x)f(x)$$
>
>Q.E.D.

Now some examples:
>[!Success] Applying the Product Rule
>
>Example 1:
>- For $p(x)=f(x)g(x)$, use the Product Rule to find $p'(2)$ if $f(2)=3, f'(2)=-4, g(2)=1$, and $g'(2)=6$
>	- $p(x)=f(x)g(x)$
>	- $p'(x)=f'(x)g(x)+g'(x)f(x)$
>	- $p'(2)=(-4)(1)+(6)(3)$
>	- $p'(2)=-4+18 = 14$
>
>For $p(x)=(x^2+2)(3x^3-5x)$, find $p'(x)$ by applying the Product Rule. Check the result by first finding the product and then differentiating.
>- $f(x)=x^2+2, f'(x)=2x$
>- $g(x)=3x^3-5x, g'(x)=9x^2-5$
>- $p'(x)=f'(x)g(x)+g'(x)f(x)$
>- $=(2x)(3x^3-5x)+(9x^2-5)(x^2+2)$
>- $=6x^4-10x^2+9x^4+18x^2-5x^2-10$
>- $=15x^4+3x^2-10$

## The Quotient Rule
---

Now we look at differentiating quotients of functions. The derivative of the quotient is not the quotient of the derivatives; rather, it is the derivative of the function in the numerator times the function in the denominator minus the derivative of the function in the denominator times the function in the numerator, all divided by the square of the function in the denominator.

>[!example] Theorem: The Quotient Rule
>
>Let $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ be differentiable functions. Then $$\dfrac{d}{dx}\bigg( \dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)} \bigg) = \dfrac{\frac{d}{dx}(f(x))\cdot g(x) - \frac{d}{dx}(g(x))\cdot f(x)}{(g(x))^2}$$
>
>That is, if $$q(x)=\dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)}$$
>
>Then $$q'(x)=\dfrac{f'(x)g(x)-g'(x)f(x)}{(g(x))^2}$$

>[!Success] Example: Applying the Quotient Rule
>
>Find the derivative of each function
>- $q(x)=\dfrac{5x^2}{4x+3}$
>- $s(t)=\dfrac{\sqrt[3]{t}}{t-5}$



## Revisiting the Power Rule
---

It is now possible to use the Quotient Rule to partially prove the General Power Rule. Recall that in the previous section we proved the Power Rule for _positive integers_ but stated that we had to wait until later in the course to prove the Power Rule for the general case when the exponent is any real number. It is at this point we can add to our previous proof by extending the Power Rule to negative integers as well.

## Combining Differentiation Rules
---

As we have seen throughout the examples in this section, it seldom happens that we are called on to apply just one differentiation rule to find the derivative of a given function. At this point, by combining the differentiation rules, we may find the derivatives of any polynomial or rational function. Later on we will encounter more complex combinations of differentiation rules. A good rule of thumb when applying several rules is to apply the rules in reverse order in which we would evaluate the function.