## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. If $y=(t^2+6t+8)(6t^2+6)$ find $\dfrac{dy}{dx}$
2. If $f(x)=\dfrac{4x+3}{2x+6}$, find
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f'(3)=$
3. If $f(x)=\dfrac{\sqrt{x}+5}{\sqrt{x}-3}$, then
	1. $f'(x)=$
4. Consider the function $f(x)=\dfrac{-5x+4}{x-1}$ Compute each of the following. Simplify and use exact values
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f''(x)=$
	3. $f'''(x)=$
5. Find the derivative of $f(x)=-4\sqrt{x}(6x^5+3)(4x^7-7x)$
	1. $f'(x)=$
6. Let $f(x)=\dfrac{x}{x+8}$. find the values of $x$ where $f'(x)=4$
	1. $x=$
7. The graphs of $y=f(x)$ and $y=g(x)$ are shown
	1. The derivative of $\dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)}$ at $x=0$ will be
	2. The derivative of $f(x)g(x)$ at $x=9$ will be
8. The graph above is the function $f(x)$
	1. Let $k(x)=x^4\cdot f(x)$
	2. $k'(7)=$
9. The graph of the piecewise linear function $y=g(x)$ is given. Determine the value of $h'(-1)$ given that $h(x)=\dfrac{5x^2+7}{g(x)}$
	1. $h'(-1)=$
10. Suppose $f(-1)=1, f'(-1)=2, g(x)=x^3f(x)$
	1. The tangent line to $g(x)$ at $x=-1$ is given by $y=$
11. Given that $f(-4)=-5, f'(-4)=-1, g(-4)=2, g'(-4)=10$ and $h(x)=\dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)}$, compute
	1. $h'(-4)=$
12. Find the following using the table below:
	1. $\begin{cases} x & 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 \\ f(x) & 4 & -1 & 3 & 2 \\ f'(x) & 4 & 2 & -2 & 0 \\ g(x) & 3 & 2 & -5 & -3 \\ g'(x) & -3 & -2 & 0 & 2\end{cases}$
	2. If $h(x)=f(x)g(x)$
		1. $h'(2)=$
13. Assume that the functions $f$ and $g$ are differentiable. Find the derivative using the table below
	1. $\begin{cases} x & 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 \\ f(x) & -3 & -4 & -1 & 4 \\ g(x) & 2 & -1 & -3 & -2 \\ f'(x) & 2 & 3 & 1 & -3 \\ g'(x) & -2 & 3 & 1 & -1 \end{cases}$
	2. If $K(x)=\dfrac{g(x)}{f(x)}$
		1. $K'(2)=$
	3. If $H(x)=\dfrac{f(x)}{g(x)}$
		1. $H'(2)=$
	4. If $W(x)=\dfrac{f(x)}{2x+1}$ 
		1. $W'(2)=$
14. The dose-response for a specific drug is $f(x)=\dfrac{100x^2}{x^2+0.23}$ where $f(x)$ is the percent of relief obtained from a dose of $x$ grams of a drug where $0\le x \le 1.5$. For doses of 0.3 grams and 0.9 grams, calculate $f(x), f'(x)$
	1. $f(0.3)=$
	2. $f'(0.3)=$
	3. $f(0.9)=$
	4. $f'(0.9)=$
	5. At which dose would the patient have more relief?
	6. At which dose would an increase in dose by 0.1 grams have the greatest benefit?
15. If $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ are differentiable functions such that the graphs of $y=f(x)$ and $y=g(x)$ each have a horizontal tangent line at $x=8$, then the graph of $y=f(x)g(x)$ has a horizontal tangent line at $x=8$
	1. True or False?