## Problems
---

All problems are practice for Algebra and Precalculus courses. The content covered in this homework is meant to use existing knowledge to solve problems similar to what's seen in Calculus. Only the problems are copied below because I need to continually practice them instead of just looking up the answers.

This homework assignment is from a Calculus class with content pulled from the [Calculus Volume 1](https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1) book found on OpenStax.

1. Evaluate: $\dfrac{d}{dx}(9x^2- \sec(x)+3)$
2. If $f(x)=\cos(x)-4\tan(x)$ then
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f'(4)=$
3. If $f(x)=2x^3(\sin(x)+\cos(x))$, find $f'(x)$
4. If $f(x)=5x \sin(x)\cos(x)$ find
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f'(2)=$
5. Find the first derivative of $f(x)=\dfrac{\cos(x)}{x^2}$
6. Given that
	1. $f(x)=h(x)\sin(x)$
	2. $h\bigg(\dfrac{3\pi}{2}\bigg)=25$
	3. $h'\bigg(\dfrac{3\pi}{2}\bigg)=-23$
	4. Calculate $f'(\frac{3\pi}{2})=$
7. If $f(x)=\dfrac{3x^2\tan(x)}{\sec(x)}$, find $f'(x)$, answer in terms of sine and cosine
8. Let $f(x)=\dfrac{5x}{\sin(x)+\cos(x)}$. Find $f'(\pi)$.
9. If $f(x)=\dfrac{4\tan(x)}{x}$, then 
	1. $f'(x)=$
	2. $f'(2)=$
10. Let $f(x)=\dfrac{7}{x}-4\csc(x)$
	1. $\dfrac{df}{dx}=$
	2. $\dfrac{d^2f}{dx^2}=$
11. Find the equation of the tangent line to the curve $y=2\cos(x)$ at $x=\dfrac{7\pi}{6}$
12. Find the equation of the tangent line to the curve $y=2\sec(x)-4\cos(x)$ at the point $(\frac{\pi}{3}, 2)$. The equation of this tangent line can be written in point-slope form.
13. Given $f(x)=x-\sin(x)$, determine all values of $x$ in $[0,2\pi)$ where $f(x)$ has a horizontal tangent
14. Let $f(x)=\sin(x)$. Find the requested derivative of $f(x)$
	1. $f^{(170)}(x)=$
15. A mass on a spring bounces up and down in a simple harmonic motion, modeled by the function $s(t)=7\cos(t)$ where $s$ is measured in centimeters and $t$ is measured in seconds. Find the rate at which the spring is oscillating at $t=2$ seconds. Round your answer to four decimal places
16. Answer the following True or False: If $x$ is measured in degrees and $f(x)=\sec(x)$, then $\dfrac{d}{dx}f(x)=\sec(x)\tan(x)$
17. Prove the following statement using the facts that $\dfrac{d}{dx}\sin(x)=\cos(x)$ and/or $\dfrac{d}{dx}\cos(x)=-\sin(x)$. Your work should be legible, and all your logic should be clear and justified.

